# EXERCISE 1: CREATE IAM CREDENTIALS ON GOOGLE CLOUD PLATFORM
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) provides IaaS, PaaS, and serverless computing services.
A security professional must have the required knowledge to create IAM credentials and assign various roles to the organization’s employeesaccording to their job demand.
### OBJECTIVE
This lab will demonstrate how to create an IAM Group and IAM User, attach a role to the user and to Create a service account.
### OVERVIEW OF GOOGLE CLOUD PLATFORM
The services offered by the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) include computing, data storage and analytics, machine learning, networking, bigdata,cloud AI, management tools, identity and security, IoT, and API platforms.
Note: To perform this task, you must have a Gmail account.
Note: Ensure that PfSense Firewall virtual machine is running.


1. Turn on the Admin Machine-1 virtual machine.


2. Log in with the credentials Admin and admin@123.
Note: If the network screen appears, click Yes.


3. To open the browser, double-click on the Google Chrome icon on the Desktop.


4. The Google Chrome browser opens. Go to the address bar, click https://cloud.google.com, and press Enter.


5. The Google Cloud page appears. Click on Sign in present at the top-right corner of the page.


6. Sign in page appears, in the Email or phone field, enter your Gmail account ID and click Next.


7. In the next page, enter your password and click Next.


8. You’re signed in page appears, click Not now to continue.


9. Google Cloud platform appears, click Console present at the top-right corner of the page.


10. A welcome page appears. Under the Terms of Service section, select I agree checkbox and click AGREE AND CONTINUE.
Note: The options in the screenshot might differ in your lab environment.


11. How are you planning to use Google Cloud? page appears, click SKIP.


12. The main dashboard page appears, click IAM & Admin option from the left-pane.


13. Now, click CREATE PROJECT under the IAM section in the right-pane.


14. New Project page appears, enter the Project name as Test Project 1 and click CREATE.


15. A new project has now been created successfully, as shown in the screenshot below.


16. Now, click ADD button present at the top of the page.


17. The Add members and roles for “Test Project 1” resource page appears. In the New members field, add the members (here, two membersare added testuser1@gmail.com and testuser2@gmail.com).Note: If Add principals and roles for “Test Project 1” resource page appears. In the New principals field, add the principals (here, two principalsare added testuser1@gmail.com and testuser2@gmail.com).
Note: The users testuser1@gmail.com and testuser2@gmail.com are demo users, you can add users of your choice.


18. In a Select a role field, click drop-down icon and hover the mouse-cursor over Basic option. Under Basic option, select Editor option.


19. Click SAVE to save the settings.


20. You can observe that the members, along with the assigned Roles have been added successfully, as shown in the screenshot below.


21. Now, we will create a service account. To do so, click Service Accounts option from the left-pane.
Note: A service account is a type of Google account that grants permissions to the virtual machines instead of end users.


22. The Service accounts page appears; click on CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT from the top-section of the page, as shown in the screenshotbelow.
Note: If Google tutorial pop-up appears, click GOT IT to close it.


23. The Create service account page appears, in the Service account name field, enter Test Service 1. In the Service account description, enterThis is a test service and click CREATE AND CONTINUE.


24. The Grant this service account access to project section appears, click Select a role field. A drop-down with options appears, in the Type tofilter field, enter Storage object viewer. Select Storage object viewer from the options.


25. Click CONTINUE.


26. Now, click DONE to create the service account.


27. A service account has been created successfully, as shown in the screenshot below.


28. Using this custom service account, we can then create a virtual machine inside the platform.


29. You can further explore the various other options provided by Google Cloud Platform.


30. This concludes the demonstration showing how to create IAM credentials on Google Cloud Platform.


31. Close all open windows.
