# EXERCISE 3: SECURE AMAZON WEB SERVICES STORAGE
S3 buckets are used by customers and end-users to store text documents, PDFs, videos, images, etc.
In the cloud, data is stored on Internet-connected servers in data centres. It is important that security professionals understand and implement the datasecurity features for data encryption and access management tools provided by service providers to secure the data stored in the data centres.

### OBJECTIVE
This lab will demonstrate how to restrict access to S3 resources by creating bucket policies, Access Control Lists (ACLs), and IAM policies to provide access to selected entities.
In this lab, you will learn to do the following:
- Assign Permissions to Amazon S3 Using ACL
- Assign Permissions to Amazon S3 Using Bucket Policy

### OVERVIEW OF AWS 
Amazon S3 allows upload and retrieval data at any time and from anywhere on the Internet. It stores data as objects (text file/photo/video) within buckets. In the default state, all the Amazon S3 buckets are accessed by authorized users. Restrict access to S3 resources by combining bucket policies, ACLs and IAM polices to give access to the right entities.

Note: Before starting this lab, you should create an AWS account using the following: https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup. Once the registration is completed, perform the following tasks.
Note: Ensure that Admin Machine-1 and PfSense Firewall virtual machines are running.


1. In the Admin Machine-1 virtual machine, double-click on the Google Chrome icon on the Desktop to open the browser.


2. The Google Chrome browser opens. Go to the address bar, type https://aws.amazon.com/, and press Enter.
Note: If you are already logged in, skip the login steps.


3. The AWS Web Services - Cloud Computing Services page appears. Click on AWS Management Console from the My Account drop-down menu as shown in the screenshot below.


4. The AWS Web Services Sign-in page appears. Type the AWS administrator account ID, and click on Next.
Note: In the next window, type the characters seen in the image and click on submit. 


5. In the Password field, type the password, and click on Sign-in.


6. Click on Services. In the search field, type S3, and then click on S3 Scalablein the Cloud from the search results. 


7. The S3 buckets page appears. Click on Create bucket. 


8. The Create bucket pop-up appears. Under General configuration, type the name of the bucket in the Bucket name field (here, the bucket name is testing-group1), and retain the other default settings. 


9. Retain default settings for all other sections, scroll down and click on Create bucket. 


10. The new bucket is created.


11. Select the testing-group1 S3 bucket. 


12. The Amazon S3 > testing-group1 page appears. Click on the Permissions tab. 


13. By default, the Block all public access tab is selected; click on Edit. 


14. Uncheck Block all public access and click on Save changes. 


15. The confirmation dialog appears. Type confirm and click on Confirm. 


16. The Successfully edited Block Public Access settings for this bucket message appears. 


17. Next, scroll down to Access control List under the Permissions tab and click on Edit. 


18. In the Edit access control list (ACL) window, we will set all permissions to our ACL on our AWS account, under the Bucket owner section ensure that all the permissions are checked under Objects and Bucket ACL. 


19. Scroll down and click on Save changes to apply the permissions on the AWS account. 


20. Public access settings have been updated successfully. 


21. We have created a bucket policy with the name testing-group1. We need the ARN of the bucket policy. Right-click on Amazon S3 in the left corner and click on Open link in new tab. 


22. Check the bucket for which you want to know the ARN number (here, testing-group1). The details of testing-group1 appear. Click on Copy 


23. Open Notepad and paste the copied ARN into it. 


24. Switch to the browser and close the second browser tab. You will return to the first browser tab.25. Scroll down to Bucket Policy under the Permissions tab and click on Edit and click on Policy generator link. A new tab of the browser opens switch to a new tab. 


26. The AWS Policy Generator page appears, as shown in the screenshot below. Set Select Type of Policy to S3 Bucket Policy. Set Effect to Allow. In the Principal field, let us specify a wildcard (“*”) to allow all principals for now. Set AWS Service to Amazon S3. 


27. Switch to Notepad and copy the ARN that we have pasted. 


28. Go to the browser and check the All Actions checkbox, paste the copied ARN value in the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) field, and click on Add Statement. 


29. Once the statement is added, click on Generate Policy in the Step 3: Generate Policy section. 


30. The Policy JSON Document pop-up appears, along with the generated JSON code. Copy the code as shown in the screenshot below and click on Close. 


31. Switch to the first tab of the web browser S3 Management Console to configure Bucket Policy. Paste the copied JSON code from the Bucket policy editor, scroll down and click on Save changes. 


32. Now the bucket has public access. 


33. As described above, the security professional can assign permissions to S3 using bucket policy.


34. Log out from the AWS platform and close all open windows.


35. Turn off Admin Machine-1 and PfSense Firewall virtual machines.
